# Service Areas
1.  Introduction
    

Nile’s is offering connectivity service. The service is offered for large distributed enterprises, Campuses and SMB’s. For all deployments all monitoring, settings and SLA’s are geo-specific.  This document addresses our customers’ questions related to how we provide service in various service areas.

Our key stakeholders for Service Areas are IT infra owners from a monitoring and settings point of view, CxO’s from an SLA point of view. We also have Nile stakeholders that will leverage a Service Areas

1.  Service Area Overview
    
    1.  **what is a service area?**
        

Service areas can be logical or physical geo-constructs that are used to configure, monitor and report on the network. Following are the list of constructs Nile supports:

1.  Site
    
2.  Building 
    
3.  Floor
    
4.  Tags
    
5.  Zone
    

1.  **what is a site?** 
    

A site is a logical construct that only has a name and can be tagged (see Tag definition below)

1.  It has to be a Unique Name
    
2.  It is a Mandatory construct
    
3.  No Default Site is created
    
4.  e.g. Santa Clara, Sunnyvale etc.
    

1.  **what is a building?**
    

A Building is created under a site

1.  It is Mandatory Construct
    
2.  Building has to have an address
    
3.  Has to be mapped to a site
    
4.  Has to have a Unique name under the Site context but can be non-unique across sites. For example, Site A with multiple buildings can only have one “Building 1” but Site B can also have “Building 1”
    

1.  **what is a floor?**
    

A Floor is created under a Building

1.  it is a Mandatory Construct
    
2.  Floor has to have floor plan
    
3.  Has to be mapped to a building
    
4.  Has to have a Unique name under the Building context but can be non-unique across Buildings. For example, building A with multiple floors can only have one “Floor 1” but Building B can also have “Floor 1”
    

1.  **what is a zone?**
    

A zone is a section of a floor plan

1.  It is an Optional Construct
    
2.  It can be drawn on the floor plan
    
3.  It can have a unique or non-unique name. A zone with the same name can be applied to many gescopes
    

1.  **what is a tag?**
    

Tags can take various forms. From the customer perspective they all look the same:

1.  They can be created on the fly
    
2.  They should be automatically deleted by the system if nothing is mapped to them
    
3.  There is no dedicated page to create tags, they are created on the Site page only
    

1.  **Location/Geoscope Tags**
    
2.  Following are the types of Geoscope Tags
    
    1.  Site Tag 
        
        1.  All – This is a system defined tag and all sites will have this tag by assigned by default. It cannot be changed
            
        2.  User defined Site Tag – This tag is created by a user. When a user creates a tag at a site level for the first time it will be a Site tag and cannot be used to tagging a building
            
    2.  Building Tag – When a tag is created for the first time at a building level, it can only be mapped to a building and not to a site
        
3.  For example; Site A and Site B can be tagged with “bay-area” tag. This will be a site tag in the backend
    
4.  When creating new Admins, an Admin can be assigned “bay-area” which would mean his rights are limited to Site A and Site B
    

1.  **Profile Tags - Backend Only**
    
2.  These are tags that are used for specific configuration done by Nile in the backend
    
3.  For example, on a floor we can have classrooms and auditoriums. Both these have different Radio Profiles. We can leverage these tags to push different AP settings to classroom deployed AP’s vs Auditorium AP’s
    
4.  Who created the tags? There are only two options: Site Survey person or Installer. These two guys who know the "location" in depth. Most likely, Site survey person has to make a note of "location profile". It means that we need to update the mobile app for site survey. Another option is - NPD can take a manual input for location profile
    

1.  **Autogenerated Location Tags**
    

Based on building addresses create and map tags automatically. For example, North Bay, East Bay, Evergreen etc.

1.  **is there a hierarchy?**
    

Yes, the hierarchy is as follows:

1.  Building
    
    1.  Floor
        
        1.  Zone
            
2.  Service Area Config/Mappings
    

1.  **can i create sites only initially?**
    

No, when sites are created it is mandatory to create buildings as well.

1.  **can i create floors. zones and upload floor plans later?**
    

Yes, floors/zones can be created at a later date

1.  **what service areas can be mapped to a wireless service?**
    

A Wireless Service can be mapped to:

1.  All (Default system defined Tag)
    
2.  Site
    
3.  Building – In the future
    
4.  Zone - When a zone name is specified, it is applied to zones that match the name in all buildings in all sites.
    

The mapping is mutually exclusive i.e Admin can only select one of the options only

1.  **what service areas can be mapped to a dhcp/radius?**
    

The following service areas can be mapped to a DHCP/RADIUS:

1.  “All” - System Defined Tag meaning all sites in the network
    
2.  Site
    
3.  Building
    
4.  Zone
    

1.  **my dhcp server serves multiple subnets for my site. can nile leverage this dhcp server?**
    

Yes, Nile supports this deployment model

1.  **can i create radius servers?**
    

Yes, just like DHCP you can create multiple Radius servers at a Global level

1.  **can i have separate radius servers for employee and guest?**
    

Yes, you can have multiple Radius servers for employee and guests

1.  Service Area Monitoring
    
    1.  **can i monitor the network based on service areas?**
        

Yes, the admin can monitor based on the following service areas:

*   All
    
*   Site
    
*   Building
    
*   Floor
    
*   Tag – should we allow this?
    

1.  **what parameters can i monitor?**
    

Following are the items that can be monitored:

1.  SLAs
    
2.  Clients
    
3.  Applications 
    
4.  Edits and Deletes
    
    1.  **Can I delete floor?**
        

If a service is active on a Floor, it cannot be deleted. If there is no service, the floor can be deleted assuming there are no floor plans and there was no service prior (we may have monitoring data stored so we can’t remove it even if service is not there)

1.  **can i remove the floor plan or change it?**
    

If a service is active on a Floor, floor plans cannot be replaced or deleted

1.  **can i delete a building?**
    

If service was active at the building, it cannot be deleted. It can only be deleted if:

1.  There was no prior service
    
2.  All floor plans are deleted
    
3.  All floors are deleted
    
4.  All DHCP/RADIUS is unmapped
    

1.  **can i delete a site?**
    

If service was active at the site, it cannot be deleted. It can only be deleted if:

1.  There was no prior service
    
2.  All floor plans are deleted
    
3.  All floors are deleted
    
4.  All buildings are deleted
    
5.  All Wireless Service/DHCP/RADIUS are unmapped
    

1.  **can i rename a building?**
    

If the building has active service or prior service, it cannot be renamed.

1.  **can i change the address of the building?**
    

If the building has active service or prior service, it cannot be changed.

1.  **can i rename a site?**
    

If the site has active service or prior service, it cannot be renamed.

1.  **can i change the address of the site?**
    

If the site has active service or prior service, it cannot be renamed.

1.  **can i change the floor name?**
    

If the floor has active service or prior service, it cannot be renamed.

1.  **can i change the zone name?**
    

If the zone has active service or prior service, it cannot be renamed.

1.  **can i delete a zone?**
    

If the zone has active service or prior service, it cannot be deleted.

1.  **what is the definition of active or prior service?**
    

Once a Nile Element has been mapped to floor plan, we consider it to have service. A site, building or floor cannot be deleted by Admin if there is active or prior service. Admin has to contact Nile for any modifications.

1.  **can i move a floor from one building to another?**
    

No, you cannot move a floor from one building to another.

1.  **can i move a building from one site to another?**
    

No, you cannot move a building from one site to another

1.  **can i remove a tag from the site and building?**
    

If the site/building has active service or prior service, an existing tag cannot be removed. But a new tag can be added